Hey, everyone, welcome back to Boost
Your Income with Bootstrap to WordPress.
We're entering another new section
here call Bootstrap Templates.
This lecture is called Coding
the Basic Webpage Layout.
[MUSIC]
Okay, so what you're gonna want to do now
is open up your code editor of choice.
Mine, as always, is Coda 2.
If you are a regular student of mine,
you will know that I sing its praises
regularly because it saves me hours of
time and therefore it saves me hundreds,
if not thousands of dollars
by this point in my career.
I use it daily, I use it hourly.
It makes me money and it saves me money.
It is an amazing code editor.
If you are using a Mac,
i highly suggest it, you can check
it out at bradhussey.ca/coda2.
Otherwise, if you are on a PC if
you have a code editor of choice,
you can go ahead and open that up.
One that I recommend is Notepad++.
There are a few other ones as well.
And for
Mac there are other free options as well,
like TextWrangler and
other things like that.
So open up your code editor and
make sure to open up your B2W folder and
your code editor right here.
I have it queued up, B2W, and
you'll see here that I've already
created an index.html file.
Go ahead and do that,
and open up that file.
And right here we're gonna start
coding our basic HTML layout.
The first thing in any HTML file is the
doctype and because we're gonna be using
HTML5, the doctype is very simple and
looks like this.
Perfect.
All right, if you're using Coda 2 you can
use a few keyboard shortcuts to speed
up your coding.
Like I said, I use Coda 2 because it
helps me save time with typing and
writing the same things over and
over and over again.
So bear with me with the speed of this.
You can go ahead and pause.
That's what's great about this,
we're using video.
Go ahead and pause if you can't keep up.
If you're using Coda 2, then follow
along like the ninja that you are.
Basic page.
Boom, there it is.
So we have our HTML, head and
body, so basic HTML layout.
Right here, let's just write out
Bootstrap to WordPress in our title.
And within our head, we're just gonna add
a few meta tags and things like that.
Because we're gonna be utilizing them
once we turn this into a WordPress site.
Okay, so let's just add them
up here at the very top.
Meta, http equiv equals content-type.
And then content, text, HTML.
Charset equals
UTF dash eight.
This is just basically
just giving the browser
some extra information about our webpage
and the content that we're serving up.
If you want to research these,
no problem, go ahead.
But otherwise just add them in.
It's all good.
It won't hurt if you don't add them,
but it's always nice to add them.
All right.
Meta, name, viewport.
And the content of this will be width
equals device dash width comma
initial scale equals one.
Okay so that meta tag is for the viewport
so when we make this responsive this
will tell the mobile devices the width and
the initial scale.
Meta name, description, content,
leave this one empty because we're going
to be updating this dynamically
in WordPress when we get there.
Next one meta name.
Whoops.
Meta name author.
Content same,
this will be updated in the WordPress.
We are going to add a link tag for
our rel icon, this is for
our faicon we'll add
this a little bit later,
unless in our assets folder
we already have our favicon.
There it is.
Okay, so all we'll need to do here is just
say assets/img/favicon.ico.
So that will give us the little favicon
graphic in the address bar of our browser,
or when you bookmark
the webpage on your browser.
We already have title, and
then let's add HTML5 shiv respond JS.
So those things are basically,
let me explain them here.
HTML 5 shiv and respond JS basically
gives IE 8 support of HTML5 elements and
media queries which we will
be using with Bootstrap.
It's going to tab this in here.
So right here this is a conditional
comment for Internet Explorer nine.
It's basically an HTML5 comment that
only Internet Explorer can read because
Internet Explorer sucks.
Just to put it nice and simple.
If less than IE 9.
So this is saying okay IE nine and
up, they're okay.
Don't use this.
But if you're less than IE nine it's
going to serve up a couple scripts here.
So script source is the html5shiv.
JS here, and the respond JS.
So this will just help IE 8
have support of HTML5 elements.
So, go ahead and pause the video if
you haven't already typed this out and
add that in there.
Otherwise you can open up the course files
and open up the index file and check out
the head and then just copy this section
out to make sure you don't have any typos.
All right.
Moving on.
Down here in our body, this is where
we're going to add a few more things.
Just some basic webpage layout things.
All right.
So we're gonna add an HTML5 header.
And we're not going to add
all the content right now,
we're just going to add the markup,
so that we can add the content and
the rest of the markup a little bit
later in the upcoming lectures.
So we have the header, let's go ahead and,
after that give some space and
we're gonna add a section tag.
And that will be for the hero.
And I'm just gonna start adding
some HTML comments as well.
HTML comment looks like this.
Because I'm using Coda,
I have a little comment.
Keyboard shortcut htmlcomment.
Right here, I'm just going to say hero.
So I just have a really clear
html flag to see the sections.
It's kind of nice for layout and
for seeing where I am.
Organization.
All right so, we're gonna go
down to the next section and
that will be our
htmlcomment Opt in section.
And that will also be a section tag.
And after that we have
another html comment and
that will be
the Boost Your Income section.
And that would again,
another HTML5 section tag.
After that, we have
the Who Benefits section.
Okay.
Then we have our
Course Features section.
After that we're gonna add
our Project Features section.
Then the Video Featurette section.
Then the Instructor section.
After the Instructor section,
we have a Testimonials section.
After Testimonials,
we have a Sign Up section.
After our Sign Up section,
we have the course footer.
And that will be in HTML5 footer tag, so
we can be as semantic as possible and
give as much meaning
to our HTML as we can.
After our footer.
So this is the layout for the home page.
It's obviously got a lot of content,
as you've already seen.
We've got a lot of sections.
Let's get another HTML5 comment here,
html comment, header, perfect.
At the bottom, after our footer,
we have the pop-up, or modal window.
For those of you who have been following
along for a while, I've had a few students
say hey Brad, you're saying modal wrong,
you're saying 'mo-dal." I don't know if
I have a funny accent or something,
but I used to always call it mo-dal.
Because it just sounds fancier.
Modal just sounds sloppy, but I'll
call it modal because I like you guys.
All right.
Htmlcomment.
We're gonna add the modal here.
And this is gonna be a div.
Just leave that for now.
We'll fill that in when it comes up.
Let's leave it at that for this lecture.
In the next lecture, we have a couple
more things we have left to do for
this specific file, and then we're
gonna jump into the next part, so
I'll see you in the next lecture.
[MUSIC]